NIfTImatlab
===========

Classes and functions to read and  write NIfTI image files using Matlab (Version
7, R14, or later). 

The NIfTI header is handled by  the class "niftiheader". The file I/O is handled
by the  class "niftifile", which contains  an object of  type "niftiheader". All
operations should be performed via the "niftifile" object. 

On-line help on the class can be obtained with "help niftifile".

Constructors
------------

nfd = niftifile()	      Create object with default values for header. File
			      name will have to be set with "name" assignment. 

nfd = niftifile(NAME)	      Create object with default values  and set file to
			      NAME. If extension is  present, nifti type will be
			      inferred with precedence  given to NIfTI dual file
			      over ANALYZE 7.5. If no extension given, type will
			      have to be set with "type" assignment. 

nfd = niftifile(NAME,INIOB)   Create object using  values from INIOB object, set
			      file to NAME. If  name contains extension which is
			      not compatible  with type  in INIOB, new type will
			      be inferred  with  precedence given  to NIfTI dual
			      file over ANALYZE 7.5.  

Constructors return a niftifile object to be used for all I/O operations.


File Open and Close
-------------------

The functions  overload the built-in  matlab "fopen" and "fclose"  functions and
will be invoked when using a niftifile object as their first argument. 

nfd = fopen(nfd, mode)	      - nfd : the niftifile object
			      - mode: "read", "write"

nfd = fclose(nfd)             - nfd : the niftifile object

The functions returns the modified niftifile object.

Before using the function, the niftifile object needs to be created using of the
constructors.  

In read mode, the  function will open the file and read  the header. To read the
data use "fread()" ("help niftifile/fread"). 
        
In write mode, the  function will create the file and write  the header that was
created in memory. The header must be properly filled with the necessary values,
some basic checking  for a properly formed header is performed,  but it will not
be able to detect if some fields do not have the right values. To write data use
"fwrite()" ("help niftifile/write"). 


Read/Write
----------  

The functions overload  the built-in matlab "fread"  and  "fwrite" functions and
will be invoked when using a niftifile object as their first argument. 

[nfd, data, size] = fread(nfd, numpix) - nfd   : the niftifile object
				       - numpix: number of pixels to read 

The function returns  the modified niftifile object (nfd),  the data read (data)
and the number of pixels read (size).


[nfd, size] = fwrite(nfd, data, numpix) - nfd   : the niftifile object
                                        - data  : the data to be written
				        - numpix: number of pixels to read 

The  function returns the  modified  niftifile  object (nfd)  and the  number of
pixels written (size).


Display and Assignment of members
---------------------------------

The standard  matlab display  command applied to  niftifile object  will display
the value  of the  members of the  niftiheader object  that is contained  in the
niftifile object.

The values of  the niftiheader object can be modified  using the standard matlab
assignment operator  ("=") applied  to niftifile object  followed by  the period
(".") and the  name of the niftiheader member. Changing  the "nifti_type" or the
"compression" values will change the name of the file to reflect the new type.
